"I want to make sure I understand what you mean by clarity. Is it when you're very relaxed, but
alert, and in noticing whatever happens without labeling it?"
"Yes, those are all, but this time also clarity means when you're meditating, when you're med
itating and have the quality of the clarity."
"So that means, if I use examples, for example, like examples of the sky, the outer skies, the sky
is always open, open to all, always this vastness."
"But certain times, certain times, the sky looks so bright, so clear, what you say, clear crystal,
clear crystal, that we see sometimes."
"That kind of qualities, in the meditation, we can kind of bring out, that is known as clarity,
basically. But this clarity, generally, again, we're not bringing something is not there with the
nature of the mind."
"According to Dzogchen, this clarity is sambukaya, sambukaya of the nature of the mind."
"So, in Dzogchen teaching, what is it, this nature of the mind, what we're talking frame of the
wisdom, it has emptiness, it has clarity, it has active energy."
"And now, we divided this nature of the mind, we can't explain three things, empty, clarity, or the
luminosity, and then active energy."
"So, that was three aspects, three aspects of the nature of the mind."
"What means, emptiness, when you look to your mind, or when we're talking looking to the lookers,
moment you look to the lookers, there's nothing really can find."
"And that is, basically, emptiness of the mind. Then, this mind has that energy."
"Energy, two things come up, comes up, it's already there, it's already there, it's inseparable, it
's there, that energy is there."
"That energy, what is that energy, that clarity is not just clarity in light, but it is clarity,
that means it's compassion, it's loving kindness, it's wisdom, that is really clarity."
"If we summarize that, that energy is with that emptiness mind, emptiness one, neither any separ
ations, that is clarity, that is emptiness, it's emptiness, that is clarity, that's the one."
"That is what, that energy, we're talking here of the great Mahatma Shambhava Sorana, is saying,
trying to kind of raise up that energy, or that brain, without effort, just it's naturally there,
it's trying to kind of lift up that."
"And when you do that, then it's again in the teaching set, as I said all the day."
"Relies in the gazing, a little bit up in the space, and then when you do that, naturally, that
emptiness meditations, of the meditation will become a little more clear, more kind of clarity, or
a little bit bright."
"And now, this prompt, that combination of these both, what's called clarity, emptiness, then what
is coming, third one, is called active energy."
"Active energy, what is this active energy? It's our thinking."
"Each of this chain, our thought, now what we're talking, is active energy of that emptiness and
clarity."
"This active energy is also not lost in the quality of the emptiness and clarity."
"It is, for example, this wrong thing is told, our thoughts are coming, the chain of thoughts are
coming, but it is, immediately,"
"Doesn't let them out, dissolve, and redefine again, with intelligence, intelligence, or analyz
ation, this from analyzation."
"This is called display, active energy of the energy, and in the zooki teaching, it's called namak
ayas."
"This namakayas, namakayas."
"And even though it's divided, all those three kind of, the divided aspects, but they're all in the
same."
"It's not really coming three different places. It's all, it's all in, in all."
"Thank you so much for your work. Thank you. Thank you, thank you, you're welcome. Thank you."